Hello everyone, in this week's After
Effects scripting tutorial, I'm going to
be showing you how to better learn After
Effects scripting by yourself and some
steps that I would take and recommend to
do so. So, as most of you know, After
Effects scripting can be very
complicated at times.
So, sometimes it can seem really hard to
get through learning it. So, I just
wanted to go over a few tips and give
you guys some tips and tricks of how I
learned.
So, the first thing is to always
reference the scripting guide and the UI
guide.
I'll have all the resources in the
description including these links, but
you basically want to make sure that
you're always learning about what's
inside of the scripting guide. Make sure
you check all the new versions to see
what features have been implemented
recently or what features are now
obsolete. The scripting guide is very
useful because everything is organized
in an object mode so that we can
actually see the hierarchy of how
everything works inside of After Effects
from the application level all the way
down to the property or parameter level.
And there's also the script UI which is
designed for InDesign actually, but it
does apply for any other types of
scripts that you could be making.
And this script is basically just going
to allow us to learn everything we need
to know about making UIs. And it even
has included example code as well as
images for what all the code does. So
again, this one will also be in the
description.
The next thing I would recommend is
constant code review. If you're not
reading a language when you're learning
it, you're not going to be able to speak
it or write it. So, it's important to
always be taking a look at at least some
code
whether it be syntactical and not even
JavaScript or just straight JavaScript
extended for After Effects.
Inside of every version of After Effects
inside of your support files,
After Effects includes plenty of
unencoded scripts that you can load up,
check out the code inside, and learn all
about scripting.
Another important thing is to debug.
And debugging is sort of like teaching
yourself again or removing bad coding
habits. And the main things you want to
do when debugging is just finding
general errors in your code. We can do
this by doing things like alerts
or we can even use the built-in write
line function and we can tell the user
things
while they're going through the script.
And to see an alert, it will
automatically pop up on the screen, but
to see a system write line, we need to
go to window and JavaScript console and
any system level messages will be
displayed inside of this console.
And along with debugging, you'll also
want to debug different versions of what
you're coding for. So, if you have a
script that you've only been using Adobe
After Effects 2018 for, well, it might
not work in say CS6 or CC 2014. There
are some features that aren't
implemented in the older versions of
After Effects that have been put in
recently. So, always be sure to be
testing not just in Extend Script, but
also in the versions of After Effects
you're expecting to work in.
And also along those lines, not just on
Windows, but you also want to test
things on Mac
because often some code won't work on
Mac, especially if you're using folder
structures. The next piece of advice I
could give you is to make sure you visit
uh any forums for After Effects
scripting. These are the most helpful
places to go to if your answers cannot
be found in your head, in the UI guide,
in the scripting guide, or just talking
to close friends who know about
scripting.
I find that even when I can't come up
with something after days of practice
and trial and error or talking to my
friends, the last place and where most
of the answers will be found is here.
And of course, before you post
something, be sure to search through on
the forums first. If you just post
something and that thread already exists
somewhere,
you're not going to get the best welcome
to the community.
Another hyper important thing is to use
object level thinking.
Inside of ExtendScript, we can load up
the object model viewer, which for us
will describe all of the JavaScript core
classes built into JavaScript extended,
as well as we can have access to script
UI classes and program specific classes.
This is very important because we can go
in here and say look at if I want to
access a file, I can see all of the
constructors, instances, and classes
involved with it, all the attributes and
properties that I can call, read and
write from it, as well as you can see
the actions we can apply to it.
Knowing how different object levels work
in After Effects is incredibly important
because I often find myself messing up
lines of code because I accidentally
misunderstood part of the scripting
guide or how the object model works. For
example, if I had a composition and I
wanted to add a layer to it, like a
solid, I would typically just say
comp.addSolid,
but anyone who's used After Effects
scripting knows that that would not work
because we need to have
comp.layers.solid.
And the same thing goes for any
app.project level things. If we wanted
to say add an AV item or something,
that would not work because we need to
also reference the project items. So,
it's important to know the object level
and how everything is organized, which
you can also again see inside of the
scripting guide.
It has a nice object model view here,
and also inside of the object model
viewer inside of ExtendScript, we can
also view this for UI classes and
others.
Another way to learn, although a lot
harder, is to watch tutorials. The only
ones I can recommend are my own and
David Torno's where there's about 19 or
so tutorials, I believe, on his website,
videoprocoalition.com.
But you want to watch lots of tutorials,
not just to learn, but also to get
ideas, which you can also get from
websites like VideoHive in the After
Effects script category. But of course,
don't steal from these artists, just get
ideas and see if you can come up with
anything more unique than them.
And the final piece of advice I can give
to you guys
The best way to learn anything is to do
it by yourself and force yourself to do
it. The way I initially learned how to
use After Effects scripts
was just to set a goal and slowly work
towards it. I first told myself, "Okay,
I want to have a script that can turn on
and off all my layers." So, what do I
first need to do?
Well, the first thing I should probably
do is learn how to turn off a layer and
turn on a layer and with a script. Then
I need to figure out how I can do it to
multiple layers,
and in this case, all of them.
And the biggest thing is just to push
through any struggles that you have.
That's the fun part and the hard part
about coding is problem solving.
Although we're not doing high-level math
or computer science inside of JavaScript
right now,
there's still going to be a lot of
problems and some code bugs that are
going to take forever to fix. And once
you realize that there's just an extra
comma or a period, you're going to feel
so stupid afterwards,
but you'll know for next time to look
out for that. And it's those little
things that you learn along the way that
will just help you become a lot better
of a programmer. So, that's going to be
it for this tutorial, guys. I hope you
enjoyed. That's how you can teach
yourself or start learning After Effects
scripting by yourself.
If you guys enjoyed these tips, make
sure to hit the like button and also hit
the subscribe button with the bell
button next to it to be notified of new
uploads coming out every Monday.
If you have any questions or comments,
of course, leave them down below in the
comments section and be sure to check
out all of the other videos that I've
talked about today down in the
description below.
All right, guys, that's going to do it
for this video. Next week, we're going
to be back to tutorials.
So, thanks again for watching and we'll
see you then.